DO YOUR BEST AND LEAVE THE REST TO GOD

Modern day students are faced with  
       Pressure of Time,  Competition,  Other Expectations

Why do people become anxious and tense about doing a thing ?

Worry about the Result

Equal chance for success and failure
Element of luck in the result – good or bad result

b)	Waiting for the Result

The result is currently unknown and often takes a while to reach us
The result may be poor

When do we worry about the Result ?

Even before the tournament begins there is tension, 
       “Will I be able to beat my opponent today?”
While playing the game there is tension, “What’ll happen if I lose?”
Even if you win the game, there is tension, “Will I do so well in the next round?”

Why are you so tense ?  It is only because you are so concerned about the result.

What does tension and worry do to us ?

We worry because we are keen to do well.  What we do not realise is that the biggest enemy of doing well is this very tension and worry.  It paralyses our body and mind without our knowledge and prevents us from doing well.

This is how the enjoyment in most activities is lost.

How can we stay cool and succeed without worry and tension ?

Do your Best
 
God helps those who help themselves.  First step is to do everything you can by way of hard work and effort.  Half of our worries about a thing are because we have not done our best.  For example, if we have prepared well for an exam, we can be quiet relaxed.  But if we haven’t there are butterflies in the stomach right from the beginning.
Since the only thing we have full control over is our actions, we must do our best in all we do.  Only then can we hope for good results.  “Your”  best need not be “the” best.  Many may be better than you, but it is equally true that you are better than many others too.  

(Examples)
We are not in control of things in this world.  God is in control.  
Who helps our body to grow in mother’s womb? 
Who replaced our milk teeth by strong ones without making them   all fall at the same time, but one by one ? 


Leave the rest to God

Surrender the worry about result to God

We are not in control of things in this world.  God is in control.  Who helps our body to grow in mother’s womb?  Who replaced our milk teeth by strong ones without making them all fall at the same time, but one by one ?  God’s plan is perfect even in such small things.

(story)  Why Banyan fruit is small ?     

Formula 1 :   

 Do your best  +  Giving up worry/tension about result  =   Surrender to God

After you have done your best and also left the rest to the Lord, then how do you receive the result ?  This is important question because sometimes the results of your efforts may not be up to your expectation.

Once you have handed over worrying about the result to God, whatever the result, it is a gift, prasadam from the Lord.  He always knows what is best for us and will give us a result according to that.  Hence it becomes easy to accept the result as the best thing for our growth.

What we want may not always be the best for us.  It is best to leave everything to God as He is all-knowing (omniscient) and all-loving and will only do what is best for us.

(story)  God knows best -  brick falling from roof on man

Understand what is `Success’  and `Failure’

Everyone cannot succeed in everything.  If there are 50 students in a class, only one can get a first rank.  
We think that repeatedly getting what we want is success.  But not everything we want may be good for us.  
Success is not only in getting a result you want.  Success is also doing a thing well and honestly.  “Success is not in the trophy won;  it is in the race run.”
Also failure is not a terrible or shameful thing.  It is a stepping stone to success.  If every failure is treated as a learning experience, it will finally help us succeed.  Every champion loses a hundred matches before winning a big one.

Formula two :

Correct Understanding 		    Faith that			      Feeling of being blessed
of Success and Failure     +         God knows best         =      		at all times


Formula three :

Surrender  +   Feeling of being blessed at all times   =    Peace
